

1. Ascendandan Lord in Ascendand

Should the ascendant lord be in the
asecndant itself, the native will be endowed with physical
happiness (i.e. good health) and prowess. He will be intelli-.
gent, fickle-minded, will have two wives and will unite with
other females

Notes : The position of the ascendant lord in the
asctndant itself will make the native fearless and longlived.

2. Ascendandan Lord in 2nd


2. If the lord of the ascendant is in the 2nd, he will be
gainful, scholarly, happy, endowed with good qualities, be
religious, honourable and will have many wives.
Notes : The native having the ascendant lord in the 2nd
house will face obstacles in obtaining progeny and thus he will
be left with a longing for issues. He will further become wealthy
through his own efforts



3. Ascendandan Lord in 3rd

If the lord of the ascendant is in the 3rd, the native
will equal a lion in valour, be endowed with all kinds of wealth,
be honourable, will have two wives, be intelligent and happy

Notes : Should the 3rd housc contain the ascendant lord,
one will be equal to a king, respected by othcrs and will indulge
in unnatural methods of sexual gratification

4. Ascendand Lord in 4th

trf the ascendant lord is in the 4th, the native will be
endowed with paternal and maternal happiness, will have many
brothers, be lustful virtuous and charming.
Notes : With the ascendant lord in the 4th house, the
native is of a noble descent. He will prosper by his own efforts.
He will be ambirious and beautiful. prosperity will come to
him easily. He will ever enjoy physical felicity.

5. Ascendand Lord in 5th

lf the ascendant lord is in the 5th, the native will have
mediocre progenic happiness, will lose his first child, be
honourable, given to anger and be dear to king.


6. Ascendand Lord in 6th


If the ascendant lord is in the 6th and related to a
malefic the native.will be devoid of physical happiness, and will
be troublcd by encmies if there is no benelic aspect.
Notes : The ascendant lord going to the 6th house will
mar the prospects of health. However, for Scorpio and Taurus
ascendant, it will be a felicitous augury for freedom from
diseases.
The 6th house position of Lagna Lord in .general will give
abundant wealth and respect apart from royal 'status. There is,
however, a possibility of more than one marriage or losing the
spouse early


7. Ascendand Lord in 7th

 If the ascendant lord is a malefic and be in the 7th, the native's wife will not rive (long). If the Planent in question be a
benefic, one will wander aimlessly, face penury and be dejected.
He will alternatively become a king (if the said Planent is strong).


8. Ascendand Lord in 8th

If the ascendant lord is in the 8th, the native will be an accomplished scholar, be sickly,  thievish, be given to much
anger, be a gambler and will join others's wives.

The only good effect of the ascencrant Lord being in the 8th house is one's academic accomplishment. This position will cause Balarishta or child mortality. The native,s
health will be poor. he will be a repository of misfortunes. He will see many deaths in the family to his grief. His married
life will be a hell. He will be a profligate and wil incur illfame and disrepute, penury will ever be after him.

Not Applicable to Aries and Libra Ascendand.





9. Ascendand Lord in 9th.

  If the ascendant lord is in thc 9th, the native will be fortunate, dear to people, be a devotee of Sri Vishnu, be skilful,
eloquent in speech and be endowed with wife, sons and wealth


10. Ascendand Lord in 10th

  If the ascendant lord is in the lOth, the native will be endowed with paternal happiness, royal honour (or patronage),
fame among men and will doubtlessly have self-earned wealth.

The lOth house occupied by the ascendant lord
denotcs obtainment of co-born. The native will possess ambitions and will prosper in his pursuits


11. Ascendand Lord in 11th

If the ascendant lord is in the llth,the native will
always be endowed with gains, good qualities, fame and many
wives.


11. Ascendand Lord in 12th

    If the ascendant lord is in the l2th and be devoid of
benefic  aspect/conjunction, the native will be bereft of physical
happiness, will spend unfruitfully and be given to much anger.

Notes:If the ascendant lord is in the l2th,the native's life will not be prosperous. He will be addicted to gambling,
theiving, debauchiry and other vices' He will expend
wastefully