Inattention: Six (or more) of the following symptoms have persisted for at least
6 months to a degree that is inconsistent with developmental level and that negatively impacts directly on social and academic/occupational activities:
Note: The symptoms are not solely a manifestation of oppositional behavior, defiance, hostility, or failure to understand tasks or instructions. For older adolescents
and adults (age 17 and older), at least five symptoms are required.
a. Often fails to give close attention to details or makes careless mistakes in
schoolwork, at work, or during other activities (e.g., overlooks or misses details,
work is inaccurate).
b. Often has difficulty sustaining attention in tasks or play activities (e.g., has difficulty remaining focused during lectures, conversations, or lengthy reading).
c. Often does not seem to listen when spoken to directly (e.g., mind seems elsewhere, even in the absence of any obvious distraction).
d. Often does not follow through on instructions and fails to finish schoolwork,
chores, or duties in the workplace (e.g., starts tasks but quickly loses focus and
is easily sidetracked).
e. Often has difficulty organizing tasks and activities (e.g., difficulty managing sequential tasks; difficulty keeping materials and belongings in order; messy, disorganized work; has poor time management; fails to meet deadlines).
f. Often avoids, dislikes, or is reluctant to engage in tasks that require sustained
mental effort (e.g., schoolwork or homework; for older adolescents and adults,
preparing reports, completing forms, reviewing lengthy papers).
g. Often loses things necessary for tasks or activities (e.g., school materials, pencils, books, tools, wallets, keys, paperwork, eyeglasses, mobile telephones).
h. Is often easily distracted by extraneous stimuli (for older adolescents and
adults, may include unrelated thoughts).
i. Is often forgetful in daily activities (e.g., doing chores, running errands; for older
adolescents and adults, returning calls, paying bills, keeping appointments).

2. Hyperactivity and impulsivity: Six (or more) of the following symptoms have persisted for at least 6 months to a degree that is inconsistent with developmental level
and that negatively impacts directly on social and academic/occupational activities:
Note: The symptoms are not solely a manifestation of oppositional behavior, defiance, hostility, or a failure to understand tasks or instructions. For older adolescents
and adults (age 17 and older), at least five symptoms are required.
a. Often fidgets with or taps hands or feet or squirms in seat.
b. Often leaves seat in situations when remaining seated is expected (e.g., leaves
his or her place in the classroom, in the office or other workplace, or in other
situations that require remaining in place).
c. Often runs about or climbs in situations where it is inappropriate. (Note: In adolescents or adults, may be limited to feeling restless.)
d. Often unable to play or engage in leisure activities quietly.
e. Is often “on the go,” acting as if “driven by a motor” (e.g., is unable to be or uncomfortable being still for extended time, as in restaurants, meetings; may be
experienced by others as being restless or difficult to keep up with).
f. Often talks excessively.
g. Often blurts out an answer before a question has been completed (e.g., completes people’s sentences; cannot wait for turn in conversation).
h. Often has difficulty waiting his or her turn (e.g., while waiting in line).
i. Often interrupts or intrudes on others (e.g., butts into conversations, games, or
activities; may start using other people’s things without asking or receiving permission; for adolescents and adults, may intrude into or take over what others
are doing).




Inattention Questions from ASRS 1.1


7.How often do you make careless mistakes when you have to work on a boring or
difficult project?

8.  How often do you have difficulty keeping your attention when you are doing boring
or repetitive work?

9. How often do you have difficulty concentrating on what people say to you,
even when they are speaking to you directly?

10. How often do you misplace or have difficulty finding things at home or at work?

11 . How often are you distracted by activity or noise around you?



4.When you have a task that requires a lot of thought, how often do you avoid
or delay getting started?

3. How often do you have problems remembering appointments or obligations?

2. How often do you have difficulty getting things in order when you have to do
a task that requires organization?






Hyperactivity

13. Often fidgets with or taps hands or feet or squirms in seat.

12.  How often do you leave your seat in meetings or other situations in which
you are expected to remain seated?

14. How often do you have difficulty unwinding and relaxing when you have time
to yourself?

15.How often do you find yourself talking too much when you are in social situations?

16. When you’re in a conversation, how often do you find yourself finishing
the sentences of the people you are talking to, before they can finish
them themselves?

17. How often do you have difficulty waiting your turn in situations when
turn taking is required?

18. How often do you have difficulty waiting your turn in situations when
turn taking is required?





5. How often do you fidget or squirm with your hands or feet when you have
to sit down for a long time?


6. How often do you feel overly active and compelled to do things, like you
were driven by a motor?








